Use delegation mode when the outcome is specific, the steps can be executed with available tools, and success can be checked.
The human defines the task package; the agent runs the work and returns evidence.
A useful delegation packet has six parts: the desired outcome, the relevant context, hard constraints, allowed tools, stop conditions, and the evidence required at handoff.
Missing any one of these creates hidden interpretation work.
Give the agent authority that matches the consequence.
Reading files, drafting a report, or running tests may be reversible.
Publishing, spending money, deleting data, or messaging people needs explicit gates.
Autonomy is scoped permission, not a personality trait.
Require observable evidence.
A code task returns the changed files and test results.
A research task returns primary sources and unresolved uncertainty.
A publishing task returns the public URL, visibility state, and channel placement.
The common failure is reviewing the narration instead of the result.
An agent can sound confident while the artifact is incomplete.
Inspect the output, the checks, and the boundary conditions.
Confidence is not evidence.
Delegation ends with acceptance, rejection, or a mode switch.
If the agent finds an ambiguous requirement, bring the task back to collaboration.
If it finds an unknown problem, move to exploration.
A good stop is part of a good handoff.
First, Delegate only a specified task package.
Second, Give tools, constraints, stop conditions, and evidence.
Third, Review the outcome, not the agent's confidence.